# Project Big Data Management and Processing Course

## 1. Overview 
This is a semester project for course COMP-548DL – Big Data Management and Processing


The objective as proposed was to analyze Spotify Data. To try and analyze the trends and songs' popularity in Greece/Cyprus in order to  assist in recommendation systems. But after having issues with Spark and libraries versions, as suggested by the Professor I decided to compare a MySQL schema and a MongoDB (NoSQ) schema to examine response time of different queries for Spotify Data.


In this project the Data that are being used act as a Sample from the huge volume of Spotify Data that exist in order to compare the two schemas.

## 2. Data Challenges
-  **Volume**
   Spotify contains over 100 million songs, new songs are being added every day.
- **Velocity**
- **Variety**

Spotify contains over 100 million songs, new songs are being added every day.

SSpotify contains a
huge volume of songs and data generated by users, a lot of people may
want to find famous playlists/songs or trending songs, for example find a
trending songs for workout sessions or gaming sessions. The problem is
that songs’ trends/popularity and preferences vary on a lot and different
factors like genre/artist etc. or songs for the right environment, for example,
songs that are motivating for a workout may differ from songs chosen for
relaxation or focus
This problem is a Big Data problem because Spotify actually contains
millions of songs, also every day new songs are added, each songs contain
different types of data like the music features. Except these data, there are
also data about the streaming of each song, there are playlists,
audiobooks, audio not related to music and other data. Every time a user
streams a song, pause, skips or add new song, new data entries are
created.
These can indicate 3 Big Data Dimensions, Volume, Velocity, Variety.
